<!-- For Each Loop
1. Array Transformation: Write a function that takes an array of numbers and uses
the forEach loop to create a new array where each number is multiplied by 2.
2. Finding Elements: Write a function that takes an array of numbers and a number n, and uses
the forEach loop to find if n exists in the array.
3. Counting Occurrences: Write a function that takes an array of strings and a string str, and uses
the forEach loop to count the number of occurrences of str in the array.
4. Object Properties Iteration: Write a function that takes an object and uses the forEach loop to
log each property and its value.
5. String Character Iteration: Write a function that takes a string and uses the forEach loop to log
each character of the string.
6. Array of Objects Iteration: Write a function that takes an array of objects, where each
object has a name and age property, and uses the forEach loop to log each person’s name and age.
Defining and Invoking Functions
1. Greeting Function: Write a function named greet that takes a name as an argument and logs a
greeting to the console. For example, greet("Alice") should log “Hello, Alice!”.

Prepared by: Mr. Subash Siwa[Senior-java-developer-plug pig pvt.ltd sanogau]
2. Addition Function: Write a function named add that takes two numbers as arguments and returns
their sum. For example, add(2, 3) should return 5.
3. Array Processing Function: Write a function named processArray that takes an array of
numbers and a function as arguments. The function should apply the given function to each element in the
array and return a new array with the results. For example, processArray([1, 2, 3, 4], function(n) { return
n * n; }) should return [1, 4, 9, 16].
4. Recursive Function: Write a recursive function to calculate the factorial of a number. The
factorial of a non-negative integer n is the product of all positive integers less than or equal to n.
5. Higher-Order Function: Write a function named greaterThan that takes a number as an
argument and returns a function that returns true if a given number is greater than the first number.
6. Function Invocation: Write a function that takes a function and an argument, and returns a
function that can supply a second argument.
7. Anonymous Function: Write an anonymous function expression that stores a function in a
variable and uses it to concatenate a string.
Built-in Objects
1. Date Object: Write a function that uses the Date object to return the current date and time in a
human-readable format.
2. Math Object: Write a function that uses the Math object to calculate the area of a circle given its
radius.
3. Array Object: Write a function that uses the Array object’s methods to remove duplicates from
an array.
4. String Object: Write a function that uses the String object’s methods to reverse a string.
5. Number Object: Write a function that uses the Number object’s methods to format a number
with two decimal places.
6. JSON Object: Write a function that uses the JSON object to parse a JSON string and log the
resulting object to the console.
7. RegExp Object: Write a function that uses the RegExp object to validate an email address.
8. Map Object: Write a function that uses the Map object to count the frequency of words in a
string.
9. Set Object: Write a function that uses the Set object to find the intersection of two arrays (i.e.,
elements that appear in both arrays).
Interacting With The Browser
1. Changing Styles: Write a function that changes the color of the text in a paragraph when a button
is clicked.
2. Form Validation: Create a form and write a script that validates the input fields when the form is
submitted.
3. DOM Manipulation: Write a script that adds a new item to a list when a button is clicked.
4. Event Handling: Write a script that logs a message to the console when a mouseover event
occurs on an image.
5. Window Object: Write a script that uses the window.location object to redirect the user to
another webpage.
6. Timer: Write a script that starts a timer and updates the text content of an element with the
current time left every second.
7. Local Storage: Write a script that stores a user’s name in local storage and retrieves it when the
page is reloaded.
8. AJAX Request: Write a script that fetches data from an API and displays it on the webpage.
9. Error Handling: Write a script that handles errors when an image fails to load.

Prepared by: Mr. Subash Siwa[Senior-java-developer-plug pig pvt.ltd sanogau]
10. User Interaction: Write a script that changes the background color of the webpage based on the
user’s keyboard input.
Windows & Frames
1. New Window: Write a function that opens a new browser window with a specified URL when a
button is clicked.
2. Window Size: Write a function that displays the width and height of the browser window in an
alert box when a button is clicked.
3. Frame Content: Write a script that changes the content of a frame when a button is clicked.
4. Frame Communication: Create two frames in a webpage. Write a script in one frame that
changes the content of the other frame when a button is clicked.
5. Window Location: Write a function that displays the current URL of the window in an alert box
when a button is clicked.
6. Window Navigation: Write a function that navigates the browser to a new URL when a button is
clicked.
7. Frame Size: Write a script that changes the size of a frame when a button is clicked.
8. Window Timer: Write a function that starts a timer and updates the text content of an element
with the current time left every second.
9. Window Alert: Write a function that displays an alert box with a specified message when a
button is clicked.
10. Frame Scrolling: Write a script that scrolls to a specific position in a frame when a button is
clicked.
Document Object Model
1. Element Selection: Write a function that takes an element’s ID and returns the DOM object for
that element.
2. Element Creation: Write a function that creates a new div element, sets its id attribute, and
appends it to the body of the document.
3. Element Deletion: Write a function that takes an element’s ID and removes that element from
the document.
4. Attribute Modification: Write a function that takes an element’s ID and a color, and changes the
element’s background color to the given color.
5. Text Content: Write a function that takes an element’s ID and a string, and sets the element’s
text content to the given string.
6. Event Handling: Write a function that attaches a click event handler to a button. When the
button is clicked, the background color of the page should change.
7. Form Handling: Write a function that prevents a form from being submitted if a certain input
field is empty.
8. DOM Querying: Write a function that takes a tag name and returns an array of all elements in
the document with that tag name.
Event Handling
1. Image Gallery Viewer
o Create an image gallery where each thumbnail image can be clicked to display the full-size image.
o Use event handlers to listen for click events on the thumbnail images.
o When a thumbnail is clicked, prevent the default action and instead display the full-size image in a
designated area of the page.
2. Form Validation
o Create a form with fields for username, email, and password.

Prepared by: Mr. Subash Siwa[Senior-java-developer-plug pig pvt.ltd sanogau]

o Use event handlers to validate the input in real-time as the user types into each field.
o Display error messages next to the relevant field if the input is invalid.
3. Dynamic List Filtering
o Create a list of items and a search box.
o As the user types into the search box, use an event handler to dynamically filter the list to
only include items that match the search query.

4. Drag and Drop Interface
o Create an interface with draggable elements.
o Use event handlers to update the position of the elements as they are dragged and dropped.
Forms
1. Form Submission and Validation
o Create a form with fields for name, email, and password.
o Use JavaScript to prevent the form from being submitted if any of the fields are empty or if the
email is not in the correct format.
o Display an error message next to the relevant field if the input is invalid.
2. Dynamic Form Creation
o Create a button that, when clicked, adds a new set of form fields to the page.
o Each set of form fields should include a text input and a remove button.
o The remove button should remove its associated set of form fields when clicked.
Cookies
1. User Session
o Create a system that remembers a user’s name across multiple visits to your site.
o When the user visits for the first time, prompt them for their name and store it in a cookie.
o On subsequent visits, display a personalized greeting message using the name stored in the cookie.
2. User Preferences
o Create a system that allows users to customize the look and feel of your site.
o When the user selects their preferences, store them in a cookie.
o On subsequent visits, apply the user’s preferences by reading from the cookie.
o Allow the user to update their preferences at any time, and reflect these changes in the cookie.
o Provide an option for the user to reset their preferences, which deletes the cookie.
 Write a JavaScript program to Create a Cookie.
 Write a JavaScript program to Read a Cookie.
 Write a JavaScript program to Change a Cookie.
 Write a JavaScript program to Delete a Cookie.
o
Handling Regular Expression
1. Email Validation
Create a function that takes a string as input and uses a regular expression to validate if the string
is a valid email address.
2. Password Strength Checker

Prepared by: Mr. Subash Siwa[Senior-java-developer-plug pig pvt.ltd sanogau]
Create a function that checks the strength of a password. The password should have at least one
uppercase letter, one lowercase letter, one digit, one special character, and be at least 8 characters
long.
3. URL Extractor
Create a function that takes a string of text as input and returns an array of all URLs found within
the text.
4. Phone Number Formatter
Create a function that takes a 10-digit phone number as input and formats it in the standard North
American format (e.g., (123) 456-7890).
Client Side Validations
1. Form Validation
o Create a registration form with fields for username, email, and password.
o Use JavaScript to validate the form inputs on the client side before the form is submitted.
o The username should be alphanumeric and at least 6 characters long.
o The email should be in a valid email format.
o The password should be at least 8 characters long and contain at least one uppercase letter, one lowercase
letter, and one number.
2. Input Limitations
o Create a text input field that only accepts numeric input.
o Use JavaScript to prevent non-numeric characters from being entered.
3. Write a JavaScript program to create a form using following fields:
a.user name b.password c.email d.address e.phone_number
4. Create a HTML form with fields like username, password, email, country. The username
should be textbox, password and email should be the password and email fields. The
country should be drop down. Now write JavaScript function for form validation.Your
function should validate the username to be of length 5, password should start with digit
and should be alphanumeric. The email should be valid. The country field should be
selected.
5. Write HTML Script for creating a form containing text box for username, password field
for password, and checkbox for Education fields. Write a JavaScript function for the
validation of the form for all of the fields as required. In addition length of username
should at least 4, the password should start with digit and end with $.
6. Write a JavaScript program to use events such as clickevent(),mouseoverevent0,focusevent().
7. Write a JavaScript program to show Event handler property.
8. Write a JavaScript program to use of error handling mechanism using:
a)try-catch-finally block
b)try-throw-catch
9. Write a JavaScript program to use of AJAX.
10. Write a JavaScript program to use of JQUERY.
11. Write a program to show jQuery Selectors. -->